docs/dashboard/overview.md, before:

---
id: overview
title: Dashboard Overview
sidebar_label: Dashboard Overview
---

The **nanoStream Dashboard** is a web-based tool implemented and designed to provide users with an intuitive and comprehensive overview of their streaming activities. It serves as a centralized hub to monitor and manage the users live video streaming workflow.

The intended audience of the nanoStream Dashboard includes streaming professionals, broadcasters, content creators, and anyone involved in managing live video streaming services. It caters to both technical and non-technical users, offering a user-friendly interface with visualizations and clear introductions to start a live stream, monitor the settings and generate source codes to get the nanoPlayer work on any webpage.

This documentation explains the key features and how to use the dashboard efficiently.

<article className="margin-vert--lg">
  <Columns className="list_ZO3j padding-bottom--lg" >
      <Card className="col col--6 margin-horiz--md" href="./getting_started">
      <Card.Header title="Getting Started"/>
      <Card.Body className="padding-vert--md">Learn how to create a nanoStream account and manage your streams easily. </Card.Body>
    </Card>
    <Card className="col col--6 margin-horiz--md" href="./start_streaming">
      <Card.Header title="Start Streaming"/>
      <Card.Body className="padding-vert--md">Learn how to set up and start your live stream with nanoStream. </Card.Body>
    </Card>
  </Columns>
  <Columns className="list_ZO3j padding-bottom--lg" >
    <Card className="col col--6 margin-horiz--md" href="./stream_overview">
      <Card.Header title="Stream Overview"/>
      <Card.Body className="padding-vert--md">Understand how to read stream data.</Card.Body>
    </Card>
    <Card className="col col--6 margin-horiz--md" href="./abr_transcoding">
      <Card.Header title="Adaptive Bitrate" />
      <Card.Body className="padding-vert--md">Learn how adaptive bitrate streaming works and how to configure it.</Card.Body>
    </Card>
  </Columns>
</article>

## Key features

- **Comprehensive Stream Monitoring**: Get an instant overview of your streaming activities with metrics like total streams, live status, and recent stream updates.
- **Stream Management & Filtering**: Easily manage and filter your streams to find and control your content quickly and efficiently.
- **Customizable Stream Code Snippets**: Generate and customize embeddable code snippets to seamlessly integrate streams into external websites or applications.
- **Adaptive Transcoding & Live Processing**: Configure streams with transcoding profiles and manage live processing options like recording, thumbnails, and motion clips.
- **Real-Time Analytics**: Monitor key performance metrics, including concurrent viewers, ingest/stream usage, and usage breakdowns for real-time insights.
- **Alerts & Notifications**: Stay updated with notifications for minor, moderate, and critical stream issues, ensuring you can take action when needed.
- **User & Organization Management**: Control user permissions, manage access, and track your enabled packages for streamlined organization administration.
- **Seamless Webcaster Integration**: Easily create or select existing streams to enhance your live streaming process using nanoStream Webcaster v5.

Commit message:

Updating/Adding new Screenshots and adding Live Captions to other Dashboard Pages

docs/dashboard/overview.md, after:

---
id: overview
title: Dashboard Overview
sidebar_label: Dashboard Overview
---

The **nanoStream Dashboard** is a web-based tool implemented and designed to provide users with an intuitive and comprehensive overview of their streaming activities. It serves as a centralized hub to monitor and manage the users live video streaming workflow.

The intended audience of the nanoStream Dashboard includes streaming professionals, broadcasters, content creators, and anyone involved in managing live video streaming services. It caters to both technical and non-technical users, offering a user-friendly interface with visualizations and clear introductions to start a live stream, monitor the settings and generate source codes to get the nanoPlayer work on any webpage.

This documentation explains the key features and how to use the dashboard efficiently.

<article className="margin-vert--lg">
  <Columns className="list_ZO3j padding-bottom--lg" >
      <Card className="col col--6 margin-horiz--md" href="./getting_started">
      <Card.Header title="Getting Started"/>
      <Card.Body className="padding-vert--md">Learn how to create a nanoStream account and manage your streams easily. </Card.Body>
    </Card>
    <Card className="col col--6 margin-horiz--md" href="./start_streaming">
      <Card.Header title="Start Streaming"/>
      <Card.Body className="padding-vert--md">Learn how to set up and start your live stream with nanoStream. </Card.Body>
    </Card>
  </Columns>
  <Columns className="list_ZO3j padding-bottom--lg" >
    <Card className="col col--6 margin-horiz--md" href="./stream_overview">
      <Card.Header title="Stream Overview"/>
      <Card.Body className="padding-vert--md">Understand how to read stream data.</Card.Body>
    </Card>
    <Card className="col col--6 margin-horiz--md" href="./abr_transcoding">
      <Card.Header title="Adaptive Bitrate" />
      <Card.Body className="padding-vert--md">Learn how adaptive bitrate streaming works and how to configure it.</Card.Body>
    </Card>
  </Columns>
</article>

## Key features

- **Comprehensive Stream Monitoring**: Get an instant overview of your streaming activities with metrics like total streams, live status, and recent stream updates.
- **Stream Management & Filtering**: Easily manage and filter your streams to find and control your content quickly and efficiently.
- **Customizable Stream Code Snippets**: Generate and customize embeddable code snippets to seamlessly integrate streams into external websites or applications.
- **Adaptive Transcoding & Live Processing**: Configure streams with transcoding profiles and manage live processing options like recording, thumbnails, and motion clips.
- **Live Captions & Accessibility**: Enable real-time captions powered by AI-based speech recognition to improve accessibility, support multilingual audiences, and enhance comprehension in sound-off environments.
- **Real-Time Analytics**: Monitor key performance metrics, including concurrent viewers, ingest/stream usage, and usage breakdowns for real-time insights.
- **Alerts & Notifications**: Stay updated with notifications for minor, moderate, and critical stream issues, ensuring you can take action when needed.
- **User & Organization Management**: Control user permissions, manage access, and track your enabled packages for streamlined organization administration.
- **Seamless Webcaster Integration**: Easily create or select existing streams to enhance your live streaming process using nanoStream Webcaster v5.
