docs/dashboard/secure_playback.md, before:

---
id: secure_playback
title: Secure Playback & Secure Token
sidebar_label: Secure Playback & Secure Token
---

Secure Playback Tokens are a valuable tool that enhances the security of your streams by providing controlled access. With these tokens, you have the ability to decide who can play back your stream, ensuring that only authorized viewers can access your content. The regular playout URL alone will not grant playback privileges.

:::tip Prerequisites
To make use of the `secure` feature, it must be explicitly enabled for your organization. Activation may be subject to additional pricing or service terms.

You can verify whether this feature is available by navigating to [dashboard.nanostream.cloud/organisation](https://dashboard.nanostream.cloud/organisation) in your dashboard.  
In the **[Enabled Packages](./organization_overview#enabled-packages)** section, locate the entry for `secure`. If it shows **Upgrade needed**, please contact us.

![Screenshot: Enabled Packages](../assets/dashboard/enabled-packages.png)  

To activate this feature or learn more about available plans, feel free to reach out via [nanocosmos.de/contact](https://www.nanocosmos.de/contact). We're happy to assist you in finding the best setup for your use case.
:::

:::info Before starting
To get started with the **nanoStream Dashboard**, sign in with your existing *nanoStream account*.  
If you don’t have an account yet, you can [sign up](https://dashboard.nanostream.cloud/signup), or get in touch with our sales team via [nanocosmos.de/contact](https://www.nanocosmos.de/contact) or by email at sales(at)nanocosmos.net.

*Need help accessing an existing organization or unsure how to proceed?* <br/>
👉  Check the [Authentication section](./getting_started#authentication) for step-by-step guidance on creating an account, logging in, and requesting access from your system administrator.
:::

## Token Configuration

One way to create a secure token for your stream(s) or organisation is to navigate to the left-hand menu and select the lock icon. This will take you to [dashboard.nanostream.cloud/secure/token](https://dashboard.nanostream.cloud/secure/token) where you can provide necessary information to generate the token. You can also find this dialog in different sections of the nanoStream Cloud dashboard (e.g., [Code Snippets](./code_snippets), [Stream Overview](./stream_overview)).

![Screenshot: Create Secure Token](../assets/dashboard/secure-token.png)
*Screenshot: Create Secure Token*

### Required Information

1. **Target**: Choose the target of the token.
   - **Entire Streamgroup** The entire stream group by providing the stream ID
   - **Streamname(s)** specify multiple stream names or
   - **Entire Organization** select the entire organization
2. **Token Lifetime**: The default expiration date is set to 2 weeks, but you can choose any duration you prefer.

### Optional Settings

1. **Not Before Date** (optional): Set the "not before" date to ensure that the token is not valid before a specific date.
2. **Client IP** (optional): Restrict access to streams to a specific client IP address.
3. **Domain** (optional): Restrict the stream to a specific domain.
4. **UserID** (optional): Add a user ID to your token for identification purposes.
5. **Tag** (optional): Add a single tag to track your token.

By providing the required information and optionally configuring specific options, you can generate a token that meets your security requirements by clicking on **Create new token**. It is important to manage and safeguard your tokens to ensure the secure playback of your streams.

### Secure Token Overview

Once you clicked on the **Create new token** button, you will be redirected to an overview page displaying the decoded details of the token you just created. This overview will include all the specifications you set up, such as the token target, expiration date, and any optional configurations you specified.

![Screenshot: Secure Token Overview](../assets/dashboard/secure-token.png)
*Screenshot: Secure Token Overview*

Additionally, you will receive a security config object that you can copy. This object can be pasted into either the group object or the entries element of your player configuration.

```js
security: {
	jwtoken: "YOUR_TOKEN_FOR_YOUR_STREAM"
}
```

## Token Creation Dialog

In addition to the **Secure Toke** creation page, you can also find the decoded token information and create new tokens within specific sections of the nanoStream dashboard. 

You can find the inline token creation dialog in multiple locations within the dashboard:

    - dashboard.nanostream.cloud/playout/**YOUR-STREAM-ID**
    - dashboard.nanostream.cloud/stream/**YOUR-STREAM-ID**
    - dashboard.nanostream.cloud/stream/**YOUR-STREAM-ID**/code-snippets
    - dashboard.nanostream.cloud/stream/new/**YOUR-STREAM-ID**
    - dashboard.nanostream.cloud/webcaster/**YOUR-STREAM-ID**

Commit message:

Adding Screenshot and Info Section to Token Creation Dialog of Dashboard

docs/dashboard/secure_playback.md, after:

---
id: secure_playback
title: Secure Playback & Secure Token
sidebar_label: Secure Playback & Secure Token
---

Secure Playback Tokens are a valuable tool that enhances the security of your streams by providing controlled access. With these tokens, you have the ability to decide who can play back your stream, ensuring that only authorized viewers can access your content. The regular playout URL alone will not grant playback privileges.

:::tip Prerequisites
To make use of the `secure` feature, it must be explicitly enabled for your organization. Activation may be subject to additional pricing or service terms.

You can verify whether this feature is available by navigating to [dashboard.nanostream.cloud/organisation](https://dashboard.nanostream.cloud/organisation) in your dashboard.  
In the **[Enabled Packages](./organization_overview#enabled-packages)** section, locate the entry for `secure`. If it shows **Upgrade needed**, please contact us.

![Screenshot: Enabled Packages](../assets/dashboard/enabled-packages.png)  

To activate this feature or learn more about available plans, feel free to reach out via [nanocosmos.de/contact](https://www.nanocosmos.de/contact). We're happy to assist you in finding the best setup for your use case.
:::

:::info Before starting
To get started with the **nanoStream Dashboard**, sign in with your existing *nanoStream account*.  
If you don’t have an account yet, you can [sign up](https://dashboard.nanostream.cloud/signup), or get in touch with our sales team via [nanocosmos.de/contact](https://www.nanocosmos.de/contact) or by email at sales(at)nanocosmos.net.

*Need help accessing an existing organization or unsure how to proceed?* <br/>
👉  Check the [Authentication section](./getting_started#authentication) for step-by-step guidance on creating an account, logging in, and requesting access from your system administrator.
:::

## Token Configuration

One way to create a secure token for your stream(s) or organisation is to navigate to the left-hand menu and select the lock icon. This will take you to [dashboard.nanostream.cloud/secure/token](https://dashboard.nanostream.cloud/secure/token) where you can provide necessary information to generate the token. You can also find this dialog in different sections of the nanoStream Cloud dashboard (e.g., [Code Snippets](./code_snippets), [Stream Overview](./stream_overview)).

![Screenshot: Create Secure Token](../assets/dashboard/secure-token.png)
*Screenshot: Create Secure Token*

### Required Information

1. **Target**: Choose the target of the token.
   - **Entire Streamgroup** The entire stream group by providing the stream ID
   - **Streamname(s)** specify multiple stream names or
   - **Entire Organization** select the entire organization
2. **Token Lifetime**: The default expiration date is set to 2 weeks, but you can choose any duration you prefer.

:::danger Be careful with your organisation-wide tokens
Always handle tokens as confidential credentials. Be careful who you share your organisation-wide token with, as it gives access to all your assets.
:::

### Optional Settings

1. **Not Before Date** (optional): Set the "not before" date to ensure that the token is not valid before a specific date.
2. **Client IP** (optional): Restrict access to streams to a specific client IP address.
3. **Domain** (optional): Restrict the stream to a specific domain.
4. **UserID** (optional): Add a user ID to your token for identification purposes.
5. **Tag** (optional): Add a single tag to track your token.

By providing the required information and optionally configuring specific options, you can generate a token that meets your security requirements by clicking on **Create new token**. It is important to manage and safeguard your tokens to ensure the secure playback of your streams.

### Secure Token Overview

Once you clicked on the **Create new token** button, you will be redirected to an overview page displaying the decoded details of the token you just created. This overview will include all the specifications you set up, such as the token target, expiration date, and any optional configurations you specified.

![Screenshot: Secure Token Overview](../assets/dashboard/secure-token.png)
*Screenshot: Secure Token Overview*

Additionally, you will receive a security config object that you can copy. This object can be pasted into either the group object or the entries element of your player configuration.

```js
security: {
	jwtoken: "YOUR_TOKEN_FOR_YOUR_STREAM"
}
```

## Token Creation Dialog

In addition to the **Secure Toke** creation page, you can also find the decoded token information and create new tokens within specific sections of the nanoStream dashboard. 

:::warning Copy your newly created Tokens
When using the nanoStream Cloud Dashboard, please note that **you are always operating with the organization-wide token**.  
You can create new tokens and copy the related information, URLs, and code snippets. The copied assets will use the token.
However, **tokens cannot be restored after refreshing or closing the page**. Make sure to copy and store them securely before leaving the page.
:::

![Screenshot: Secure Token Creation Dialog in Stream Overview](../assets/dashboard/secure-token-dialog.png)
*Screenshot: Secure Token Creation Dialog in Stream Overview*

You can access the inline token creation dialog in multiple locations within the dashboard:

- Playout Overview
   - [dashboard.nanostream.cloud/playout/YOUR-STREAM-ID](https://dashboard.nanostream.cloud/playout/YOUR-STREAM-ID)
- Stream Overview
   - [dashboard.nanostream.cloud/stream/YOUR-STREAM-ID](https://dashboard.nanostream.cloud/stream/YOUR-STREAM-ID)
   - [dashboard.nanostream.cloud/stream/YOUR-STREAM-ID/code-snippets](https://dashboard.nanostream.cloud/stream/YOUR-STREAM-ID/code-snippets)
- New Stream Overview / Stream Instructions Overview
   - [dashboard.nanostream.cloud/stream/new/YOUR-STREAM-ID](https://dashboard.nanostream.cloud/stream/new/YOUR-STREAM-ID)
- Webcaster Overview
   - [dashboard.nanostream.cloud/webcaster/YOUR-STREAM-ID](https://dashboard.nanostream.cloud/webcaster/YOUR-STREAM-ID)
